---
title: 'ADR format'
date: '2024-08-27'
status: approved
authors: ['wigy']
reviewers: ['vismate']
---

## Context and Problem Statement

We want to avoid spending time on researching and deciding architectural questions that someone on the team already spent time on. We
would like to have a history that can be revisited by any member of the team to not only know what we already decided, but why we did
so. This also helps to notice when some circumstances change, so we can safely discard our previous decisions and make a new one.

## Considered Options

* [Y-Statements](https://scribe.rip/olzzio/y-statements-10eb07b5a177)
* Several other ADR template formats (yaml, Google Docs, Google Sheet)
* [Markdown files](https://adr.github.io/madr/examples.html) in source repository

## Decision Outcome

We decided to use Markdown files next to our source code. This shows the history of the code and gathering the knowledge together in
one interleaved stream of git commits, so newcomers could gain more insight how decisions were made. We can do slight modifications and
refinements in already accepted ADRs with an audit trail of diffs with timestamps and authors. It is easily readable in source format,
but can be rendered nicely if needed for external parties.

We use the `status` frontmatter in these markdown files to record if some ADR was `superceded` later, because the circumstances have
changed. We should not merge ADRs to develop unless they are `approved` by reviewers, so we do not really need a `pending` status.

We number our ADRs to make it easier to refer to them from other ADRs. On a merge request we use the next number, but this could cause
a merge conflict, so make sure to renumber your ADRs when rebasing on develop. The title and creation date is added to the file name to
help browsing ADRs.

Authors and reviewers in frontmatter are required so other team members could contact these people with additional questions,
suggestions without looking at the git and review history.
